README.md, before:

# pytest-deep-analysis

[![CI](https://github.com/yourusername/pytest-deep-analysis/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/yourusername/pytest-deep-analysis/actions)
[![Python 3.8+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

A Pylint plugin for deep, semantic pytest linting that targets the most challenging pain points in the Python testing ecosystem.

**Features:**
- ✅ 90 automated tests (100% passing)
- ✅ Configurable rules via `pyproject.toml`
- ✅ Advanced fixture shadowing detection
- ✅ Type inference for stateful fixtures
- ✅ CI/CD tested on Python 3.8-3.12

## Why This Linter?

### The Market Gap

The Python linting landscape has been fundamentally reshaped by [Ruff](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff), a Rust-based linter that is 10-100x faster than traditional tools. However, Ruff's speed comes from limiting its analysis to file-local, syntax-level checks.

**The most challenging problems in pytest are semantic, cross-file issues:**

- **Test Flakiness** (65% of QA leaders cite this as their #1 challenge)
- **Fixture Dependency Complexity** - tricky scope interactions and implicit conftest.py magic
- **Maintenance Overhead** - from complex test logic and fixture misuse

These problems require deep, project-wide analysis that only tools like Pylint (via astroid) can provide.

### The Solution: A Hybrid Toolchain

`pytest-deep-analysis` is designed to **complement** Ruff, not compete with it:

- **Ruff**: Fast, file-local linting (style, syntax, imports) - runs in seconds
- **pytest-deep-analysis**: Slow, deep semantic checks (fixtures, scope, dependencies) - runs in CI

This hybrid approach delivers comprehensive coverage without sacrificing developer experience.

## Installation

```bash
pip install pytest-deep-analysis
```

Or install from source:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/pytest-deep-analysis.git
cd pytest-deep-analysis
pip install -e .
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Run the linter on your test suite:

```bash
pylint --load-plugins=pytest_deep_analysis --disable=all --enable=pytest-deep-analysis tests/
```

### 2. Configure your project:

Copy the example configuration:

```bash
cp .pylintrc.example .pylintrc
```

### 3. Configure pyproject.toml (Optional):

Customize linter behavior for your domain:

```toml
[tool.pytest-deep-analysis]
# Allow domain-specific "magic" constants
magic-assert-allowlist = [
    200, 201, 400, 404,  # HTTP status codes
    "GET", "POST",  # HTTP methods
]
```

See `pyproject.toml.example` for more configuration options.

### 4. Integrate into CI:

Add to your CI pipeline (e.g., GitHub Actions):

```yaml
- name: Run Deep Pytest Analysis
  run: |
    pip install pytest-deep-analysis
    pylint --disable=all --enable=pytest-deep-analysis tests/
```

## Configuration

The linter can be configured via `pyproject.toml` to reduce false positives for domain-specific constants.

### Magic Assert Allowlist

By default, the `pytest-mnt-magic-assert` rule allows `0, 1, -1, True, False, None, ""` in assertions. Add your domain-specific constants:

```toml
[tool.pytest-deep-analysis]
magic-assert-allowlist = [
    # HTTP Status Codes
    200, 201, 204, 400, 401, 403, 404, 500, 502, 503,

    # HTTP Methods
    "GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "PATCH",

    # Your domain constants
    "localhost", 3306, 5432,  # DB ports
]
```

**Example:** Without configuration, `assert response.status_code == 200` triggers a warning. With `200` in the allowlist, it's allowed.

See `pyproject.toml.example` for a complete configuration template.

## Semantic Feedback Loop (Static ↔ Dynamic Integration)

This linter implements a **bidirectional feedback loop** between static analysis (pylint) and runtime validation (pytest plugin):

### Phase 1: Static → Dynamic (Smart Triggers)

When you run `pylint`, it generates `.pytest_deep_analysis_tasks.json` containing tests that need semantic validation:

```json
{
  "tests/test_api.py::test_user_creation": ["bdd", "pbt"],
  "tests/test_auth.py::test_login": ["bdd"]
}
```

The runtime plugin reads this file and **selectively enables validators** only for flagged tests, reducing overhead.

### Phase 2: Dynamic → Static (Suppression Cache)

When you run `pytest --semantic-validate`, the runtime plugin generates `.pytest_deep_analysis_cache.json`:

```json
{
  "tests_with_semantic_validation": {
    "tests/test_api.py::test_user_creation": {
      "bdd": {"validated": true, "timestamp": "2024-11-13T23:27:00"}
    }
  }
}
```

The next `pylint` run reads this cache and **suppresses warnings** (W9016/W9017) for proven-effective tests.

### Benefits

- **Eliminates false positives**: Tests lacking static markers but valid at runtime no longer trigger warnings
- **Reduces runtime overhead**: Only flagged tests are validated, not entire test suite
- **Evidence-based linting**: Static suggestions refined by dynamic execution evidence
- **Seamless workflow**: No manual intervention needed - the loop runs automatically

### Usage

```bash
# 1. Run static linter (generates task file)
pylint --load-plugins=pytest_deep_analysis tests/

# 2. Run tests with semantic validation (generates cache)
pytest --semantic-validate

# 3. Run static linter again (reads cache, suppresses validated tests)
pylint --load-plugins=pytest_deep_analysis tests/
```

See `pytest_deep_analysis/runtime/README.md` for full runtime plugin documentation.

## Rules

### Category 1: Test Body Smells (Flakiness & Maintenance)

| Rule ID | Message | Description |
|---------|---------|-------------|
| **W9001** | `pytest-flk-time-sleep` | `time.sleep()` found in test. Use explicit waits instead. |
| **W9002** | `pytest-flk-io-open` | `open()` found in test with resource fixture. Use the `tmp_path` fixture instead. |
| **W9003** | `pytest-flk-network-import` | Network module imported in test file. Mock network calls. |
| **W9004** | `pytest-flk-cwd-dependency` | CWD-sensitive function found. Tests should not depend on working directory. |
| **W9005** | `pytest-flk-mystery-guest` | Mystery Guest: Test uses file I/O without resource fixture (`tmp_path`, `tmpdir`). |
| **W9011** | `pytest-mnt-test-logic` | Conditional logic (if/for/while) in test. Follow Arrange-Act-Assert pattern. |
| **W9012** | `pytest-mnt-magic-assert` | Magic number/string in assert. Extract to named constants. |
| **W9013** | `pytest-mnt-suboptimal-assert` | Use direct `assert x == y` instead of `assertTrue(x == y)`. |
| **W9019** | `pytest-mnt-assertion-roulette` | Too many assertions (>3) without explanation. Split into focused tests. |
| **W9020** | `pytest-mnt-raw-exception-handling` | Use `pytest.raises()` instead of raw `try/except` in tests. |

### Category 2: Fixture Definition Smells

| Rule ID | Message | Description |
|---------|---------|-------------|
| **W9021** | `pytest-fix-autouse` | `@pytest.fixture(autouse=True)` detected. Avoid implicit magic. |

### Category 3: Fixture Interaction Smells (Cross-File Analysis)

| Rule ID | Message | Description |
|---------|---------|-------------|
| **E9031** | `pytest-fix-session-mutation` | Session-scoped fixture mutates global state. |
| **E9032** | `pytest-fix-invalid-scope` | Invalid scope dependency (e.g., session fixture cannot depend on function fixture). |
| **W9033** | `pytest-fix-shadowed` | Fixture is shadowed across conftest.py files. |
| **W9034** | `pytest-fix-unused` | Fixture is defined but never used. |
| **E9035** | `pytest-fix-stateful-session` | Session-scoped fixture returns mutable object. |

## Examples

### ❌ Bad: Flaky Test with `time.sleep()`

```python
def test_async_operation():
    trigger_async_task()
    time.sleep(5)  # ⚠️ PYTEST-FLK-001
    assert task_completed()
```

### ✅ Good: Explicit Wait Condition

```python
def test_async_operation():
    trigger_async_task()
    for _ in range(50):
        if task_completed():
            break
        time.sleep(0.1)
    assert task_completed()
```

### ❌ Bad: Invalid Fixture Scope Dependency

```python
# conftest.py
@pytest.fixture(scope="session")
def user_session(function_user):  # ⚠️ PYTEST-FIX-003
    # Session fixture cannot depend on function-scoped fixture!
    return {"user": function_user}
```

### ✅ Good: Proper Scope Hierarchy

```python
@pytest.fixture(scope="session")
def db_engine():
    return create_engine("sqlite:///:memory:")

@pytest.fixture(scope="function")
def db_transaction(db_engine):  # ✓ Function can depend on session
    with db_engine.begin() as trans:
        yield trans
        trans.rollback()
```

### ❌ Bad: Shadowed Fixture

```python
# tests/conftest.py
@pytest.fixture
def database():
    return {"host": "localhost"}

# tests/api/conftest.py
@pytest.fixture
def database():  # ⚠️ PYTEST-FIX-004: Shadows parent fixture
    return {"host": "api-server"}
```

## Architecture

### Why a Pylint Plugin?

1. **Access to astroid's inference engine**: The only mature Python engine capable of cross-file semantic analysis
2. **Project-wide understanding**: Can trace fixture dependencies across conftest.py files
3. **Proven ecosystem**: Leverages Pylint's established plugin architecture

### Multi-Pass Analysis

The checker operates in two passes:

**Pass 1 (Fixture Discovery):**
- Visit all modules
- Discover all `@pytest.fixture` definitions
- Build a project-wide fixture dependency graph
- Extract scope, autouse, and dependency metadata

**Pass 2 (Validation & Analysis):**
- Analyze test functions and their fixture usage
- Validate fixture scope dependencies
- Detect unused, shadowed, and stateful fixtures
- Perform test body analysis (Categories 1 & 2)

## Development

### Setup Development Environment

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/pytest-deep-analysis.git
cd pytest-deep-analysis
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

### Run Tests

```bash
# Run automated test suite
pytest tests/test_harness/

# Run with coverage
pytest --cov=pytest_deep_analysis tests/test_harness/
```

### Run the Linter on Itself

```bash
pylint --disable=all --enable=pytest-deep-analysis pytest_deep_analysis/
```

### Code Formatting

```bash
black pytest_deep_analysis/ tests/
```

## Performance Considerations

This linter is **intentionally slow** because it performs deep, cross-file analysis.

**Recommended Usage:**

- ❌ Don't run in pre-commit hooks or on every save
- ✅ Do run in CI pipelines on pull requests
- ✅ Do run periodically during development (e.g., before committing)
- ✅ Do combine with Ruff for fast, local feedback

**Typical Performance:**

- Small projects (<100 tests): ~2-5 seconds
- Medium projects (100-1000 tests): ~10-30 seconds
- Large projects (1000+ tests): ~30-120 seconds

Compare this to Ruff (runs in <1 second for most projects) to understand the trade-off.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

### Potential Future Enhancements

- [ ] Detect fixtures that perform database commits without cleanup
- [ ] Warn about tests that modify fixture state in-place
- [ ] Identify fixtures that could be narrowed in scope
- [ ] Detect parametrize misuse and anti-patterns
- [ ] Integration with pytest-xdist for parallel test analysis
- [ ] Custom rule configuration via pyproject.toml

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## Related Tools

- [Ruff](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff) - Fast Python linter (recommended complement)
- [Pylint](https://github.com/PyCQA/pylint) - The Python linter framework
- [pytest](https://pytest.org/) - The testing framework this plugin analyzes
- [astroid](https://github.com/PyCQA/astroid) - The inference engine powering this plugin

## Acknowledgments

This project is inspired by:

- The pytest community's discussions on fixture complexity
- The "Hybrid Toolchain" concept emerging from Ruff's success
- Pylint's astroid engine and its powerful semantic analysis capabilities

---

**Built with ❤️ for the Python testing community**

Commit message:

Fix all issues from PR#3 review
This commit addresses all critical, code quality, and documentation issues
identified in the PR#3 review.

1. CRITICAL: Fix test ID format mismatch (semantic feedback loop)
   - Static linter now generates pytest nodeid format (relative paths)
   - Added _get_test_id() helper to convert absolute paths to relative
   - Both checkers.py and plugin.py now use consistent test IDs
   - Verified: 23 warnings → 21 warnings with cache (2 tests suppressed)
   - Fixes the broken feedback loop between static and runtime

2. Exception handling improvements
   - Replaced all broad 'except Exception' with specific exceptions:
     * IOError, OSError for file operations
     * json.JSONDecodeError for JSON parsing
   - Added logging to stderr for all exceptions (warnings, not silent failures)
   - Applied to: checkers.py (_load_validation_cache, close)
   - Applied to: plugin.py (_load_validation_tasks, _write_validation_cache)

3. Code quality fixes
   - Ran Black formatter on all modified files
   - Removed duplicate Path imports (plugin.py had local imports)
   - Moved datetime import to module level (was in _get_timestamp method)
   - Added missing _assertion_count initialization in __init__
   - Added _project_root caching for test ID normalization

4. Documentation fixes
   - Fixed README claim about "selective validation" (line 136, 157)
     * Changed to "records validation results" (accurate)
     * Changed to "Focused feedback" (accurate)
   - Updated test_category1_flakiness.py docstring to include W9005
   - Removed misleading "reduces runtime overhead" claim

Technical details:
- checkers.py: +50 lines (new helpers, better exception handling)
- plugin.py: Cleaner imports, specific exceptions
- README.md: Accurate semantic feedback loop description
- All 90 tests pass (100% success rate)

Resolves all issues from:
https://github.com/Jonathangadeaharder/pytest-linter/pull/3

README.md, after:

# pytest-deep-analysis

[![CI](https://github.com/yourusername/pytest-deep-analysis/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/yourusername/pytest-deep-analysis/actions)
[![Python 3.8+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

A Pylint plugin for deep, semantic pytest linting that targets the most challenging pain points in the Python testing ecosystem.

**Features:**
- ✅ 90 automated tests (100% passing)
- ✅ Configurable rules via `pyproject.toml`
- ✅ Advanced fixture shadowing detection
- ✅ Type inference for stateful fixtures
- ✅ CI/CD tested on Python 3.8-3.12

## Why This Linter?

### The Market Gap

The Python linting landscape has been fundamentally reshaped by [Ruff](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff), a Rust-based linter that is 10-100x faster than traditional tools. However, Ruff's speed comes from limiting its analysis to file-local, syntax-level checks.

**The most challenging problems in pytest are semantic, cross-file issues:**

- **Test Flakiness** (65% of QA leaders cite this as their #1 challenge)
- **Fixture Dependency Complexity** - tricky scope interactions and implicit conftest.py magic
- **Maintenance Overhead** - from complex test logic and fixture misuse

These problems require deep, project-wide analysis that only tools like Pylint (via astroid) can provide.

### The Solution: A Hybrid Toolchain

`pytest-deep-analysis` is designed to **complement** Ruff, not compete with it:

- **Ruff**: Fast, file-local linting (style, syntax, imports) - runs in seconds
- **pytest-deep-analysis**: Slow, deep semantic checks (fixtures, scope, dependencies) - runs in CI

This hybrid approach delivers comprehensive coverage without sacrificing developer experience.

## Installation

```bash
pip install pytest-deep-analysis
```

Or install from source:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/pytest-deep-analysis.git
cd pytest-deep-analysis
pip install -e .
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Run the linter on your test suite:

```bash
pylint --load-plugins=pytest_deep_analysis --disable=all --enable=pytest-deep-analysis tests/
```

### 2. Configure your project:

Copy the example configuration:

```bash
cp .pylintrc.example .pylintrc
```

### 3. Configure pyproject.toml (Optional):

Customize linter behavior for your domain:

```toml
[tool.pytest-deep-analysis]
# Allow domain-specific "magic" constants
magic-assert-allowlist = [
    200, 201, 400, 404,  # HTTP status codes
    "GET", "POST",  # HTTP methods
]
```

See `pyproject.toml.example` for more configuration options.

### 4. Integrate into CI:

Add to your CI pipeline (e.g., GitHub Actions):

```yaml
- name: Run Deep Pytest Analysis
  run: |
    pip install pytest-deep-analysis
    pylint --disable=all --enable=pytest-deep-analysis tests/
```

## Configuration

The linter can be configured via `pyproject.toml` to reduce false positives for domain-specific constants.

### Magic Assert Allowlist

By default, the `pytest-mnt-magic-assert` rule allows `0, 1, -1, True, False, None, ""` in assertions. Add your domain-specific constants:

```toml
[tool.pytest-deep-analysis]
magic-assert-allowlist = [
    # HTTP Status Codes
    200, 201, 204, 400, 401, 403, 404, 500, 502, 503,

    # HTTP Methods
    "GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "PATCH",

    # Your domain constants
    "localhost", 3306, 5432,  # DB ports
]
```

**Example:** Without configuration, `assert response.status_code == 200` triggers a warning. With `200` in the allowlist, it's allowed.

See `pyproject.toml.example` for a complete configuration template.

## Semantic Feedback Loop (Static ↔ Dynamic Integration)

This linter implements a **bidirectional feedback loop** between static analysis (pylint) and runtime validation (pytest plugin):

### Phase 1: Static → Dynamic (Smart Triggers)

When you run `pylint`, it generates `.pytest_deep_analysis_tasks.json` containing tests that need semantic validation:

```json
{
  "tests/test_api.py::test_user_creation": ["bdd", "pbt"],
  "tests/test_auth.py::test_login": ["bdd"]
}
```

The runtime plugin reads this file and **records validation results** only for flagged tests in the feedback cache.

### Phase 2: Dynamic → Static (Suppression Cache)

When you run `pytest --semantic-validate`, the runtime plugin generates `.pytest_deep_analysis_cache.json`:

```json
{
  "tests_with_semantic_validation": {
    "tests/test_api.py::test_user_creation": {
      "bdd": {"validated": true, "timestamp": "2024-11-13T23:27:00"}
    }
  }
}
```

The next `pylint` run reads this cache and **suppresses warnings** (W9016/W9017) for proven-effective tests.

### Benefits

- **Eliminates false positives**: Tests lacking static markers but valid at runtime no longer trigger warnings
- **Focused feedback**: Only validation results for flagged tests are cached for static analysis
- **Evidence-based linting**: Static suggestions refined by dynamic execution evidence
- **Seamless workflow**: No manual intervention needed - the loop runs automatically

### Usage

```bash
# 1. Run static linter (generates task file)
pylint --load-plugins=pytest_deep_analysis tests/

# 2. Run tests with semantic validation (generates cache)
pytest --semantic-validate

# 3. Run static linter again (reads cache, suppresses validated tests)
pylint --load-plugins=pytest_deep_analysis tests/
```

See `pytest_deep_analysis/runtime/README.md` for full runtime plugin documentation.

## Rules

### Category 1: Test Body Smells (Flakiness & Maintenance)

| Rule ID | Message | Description |
|---------|---------|-------------|
| **W9001** | `pytest-flk-time-sleep` | `time.sleep()` found in test. Use explicit waits instead. |
| **W9002** | `pytest-flk-io-open` | `open()` found in test with resource fixture. Use the `tmp_path` fixture instead. |
| **W9003** | `pytest-flk-network-import` | Network module imported in test file. Mock network calls. |
| **W9004** | `pytest-flk-cwd-dependency` | CWD-sensitive function found. Tests should not depend on working directory. |
| **W9005** | `pytest-flk-mystery-guest` | Mystery Guest: Test uses file I/O without resource fixture (`tmp_path`, `tmpdir`). |
| **W9011** | `pytest-mnt-test-logic` | Conditional logic (if/for/while) in test. Follow Arrange-Act-Assert pattern. |
| **W9012** | `pytest-mnt-magic-assert` | Magic number/string in assert. Extract to named constants. |
| **W9013** | `pytest-mnt-suboptimal-assert` | Use direct `assert x == y` instead of `assertTrue(x == y)`. |
| **W9019** | `pytest-mnt-assertion-roulette` | Too many assertions (>3) without explanation. Split into focused tests. |
| **W9020** | `pytest-mnt-raw-exception-handling` | Use `pytest.raises()` instead of raw `try/except` in tests. |

### Category 2: Fixture Definition Smells

| Rule ID | Message | Description |
|---------|---------|-------------|
| **W9021** | `pytest-fix-autouse` | `@pytest.fixture(autouse=True)` detected. Avoid implicit magic. |

### Category 3: Fixture Interaction Smells (Cross-File Analysis)

| Rule ID | Message | Description |
|---------|---------|-------------|
| **E9031** | `pytest-fix-session-mutation` | Session-scoped fixture mutates global state. |
| **E9032** | `pytest-fix-invalid-scope` | Invalid scope dependency (e.g., session fixture cannot depend on function fixture). |
| **W9033** | `pytest-fix-shadowed` | Fixture is shadowed across conftest.py files. |
| **W9034** | `pytest-fix-unused` | Fixture is defined but never used. |
| **E9035** | `pytest-fix-stateful-session` | Session-scoped fixture returns mutable object. |

## Examples

### ❌ Bad: Flaky Test with `time.sleep()`

```python
def test_async_operation():
    trigger_async_task()
    time.sleep(5)  # ⚠️ PYTEST-FLK-001
    assert task_completed()
```

### ✅ Good: Explicit Wait Condition

```python
def test_async_operation():
    trigger_async_task()
    for _ in range(50):
        if task_completed():
            break
        time.sleep(0.1)
    assert task_completed()
```

### ❌ Bad: Invalid Fixture Scope Dependency

```python
# conftest.py
@pytest.fixture(scope="session")
def user_session(function_user):  # ⚠️ PYTEST-FIX-003
    # Session fixture cannot depend on function-scoped fixture!
    return {"user": function_user}
```

### ✅ Good: Proper Scope Hierarchy

```python
@pytest.fixture(scope="session")
def db_engine():
    return create_engine("sqlite:///:memory:")

@pytest.fixture(scope="function")
def db_transaction(db_engine):  # ✓ Function can depend on session
    with db_engine.begin() as trans:
        yield trans
        trans.rollback()
```

### ❌ Bad: Shadowed Fixture

```python
# tests/conftest.py
@pytest.fixture
def database():
    return {"host": "localhost"}

# tests/api/conftest.py
@pytest.fixture
def database():  # ⚠️ PYTEST-FIX-004: Shadows parent fixture
    return {"host": "api-server"}
```

## Architecture

### Why a Pylint Plugin?

1. **Access to astroid's inference engine**: The only mature Python engine capable of cross-file semantic analysis
2. **Project-wide understanding**: Can trace fixture dependencies across conftest.py files
3. **Proven ecosystem**: Leverages Pylint's established plugin architecture

### Multi-Pass Analysis

The checker operates in two passes:

**Pass 1 (Fixture Discovery):**
- Visit all modules
- Discover all `@pytest.fixture` definitions
- Build a project-wide fixture dependency graph
- Extract scope, autouse, and dependency metadata

**Pass 2 (Validation & Analysis):**
- Analyze test functions and their fixture usage
- Validate fixture scope dependencies
- Detect unused, shadowed, and stateful fixtures
- Perform test body analysis (Categories 1 & 2)

## Development

### Setup Development Environment

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/pytest-deep-analysis.git
cd pytest-deep-analysis
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

### Run Tests

```bash
# Run automated test suite
pytest tests/test_harness/

# Run with coverage
pytest --cov=pytest_deep_analysis tests/test_harness/
```

### Run the Linter on Itself

```bash
pylint --disable=all --enable=pytest-deep-analysis pytest_deep_analysis/
```

### Code Formatting

```bash
black pytest_deep_analysis/ tests/
```

## Performance Considerations

This linter is **intentionally slow** because it performs deep, cross-file analysis.

**Recommended Usage:**

- ❌ Don't run in pre-commit hooks or on every save
- ✅ Do run in CI pipelines on pull requests
- ✅ Do run periodically during development (e.g., before committing)
- ✅ Do combine with Ruff for fast, local feedback

**Typical Performance:**

- Small projects (<100 tests): ~2-5 seconds
- Medium projects (100-1000 tests): ~10-30 seconds
- Large projects (1000+ tests): ~30-120 seconds

Compare this to Ruff (runs in <1 second for most projects) to understand the trade-off.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

### Potential Future Enhancements

- [ ] Detect fixtures that perform database commits without cleanup
- [ ] Warn about tests that modify fixture state in-place
- [ ] Identify fixtures that could be narrowed in scope
- [ ] Detect parametrize misuse and anti-patterns
- [ ] Integration with pytest-xdist for parallel test analysis
- [ ] Custom rule configuration via pyproject.toml

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## Related Tools

- [Ruff](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff) - Fast Python linter (recommended complement)
- [Pylint](https://github.com/PyCQA/pylint) - The Python linter framework
- [pytest](https://pytest.org/) - The testing framework this plugin analyzes
- [astroid](https://github.com/PyCQA/astroid) - The inference engine powering this plugin

## Acknowledgments

This project is inspired by:

- The pytest community's discussions on fixture complexity
- The "Hybrid Toolchain" concept emerging from Ruff's success
- Pylint's astroid engine and its powerful semantic analysis capabilities

---

**Built with ❤️ for the Python testing community**
